
---
title: "Reproducible  Research"
author: "Ganesh Krishnan"
topic: "08
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

The whole point behind both the papers is stressing out why research reproducibility especially in computational 
sciences is of paramount importance and needs to be accepted and encouraged as a norm. 

Lets start with understanding what is WaveLab. It is a library in MATLAB and was used primarily to develop and 
produce any kind the figure that were published in wavelet articles and has a very good number of tools for wavelet 
and time-frequency transforms.  As the years have progressed since its release, the number of people using it has 
increased exponential not only because of its superior range of advanced tools but also because most researchers 
started using it as a standard tool for reproducing the figures and data.

The primary reason for acceptance of WaveLab  as a benchmark over the years has been because of reproducibility. 
Initially, papers in computational harmonic analysis used some specific datasets, when other researchers used these 
same datasets, they were able to not only compare the performance of their procedures with WaveLab, but some could 
also make additions to an already conducted experiment by using the data sets to produce advanced setups that used 
the initial datasets and initial setups (reproducing figures and datasets off previous research) as a base, thereby 
giving not only clarity and reproducibility but a hierarchy and clear map of advancement. As a by product of all 
this, WaveLab became highly cited and has since contributed effectively in the reproducibility cause by becoming 
the going standard for reproducing research in the field.

Also as cited in the papers, reproducibility not only helps progress as a community but also for the local research 
group and the researcher to keep track of their own research work produced. In a research group especially with 
many levels of authority ranging from 1st year grad student to post docs to professors communication can play an 
essential role and if the computational research is reproducible it not only helps verification if the right 
question is being addressed but also allows every one to be on the same page and contribute much more effectively. 
As said in the paper in many words  that in order to ensure reproducibilty for our own sake, we need to work as if 
a stranger will use the code and only then, without any complaint, will we produce code that is truly reproducible, 
and for the sake of the community that only if we are certain that the code is going to be used and is written for 
strangers will we produce a truly reproducible code!

WaveLab stands as a good example of what a standard platform can help achieve, a need for developing or adopting 
standard platforms for other areas of computational sciences still exists and should be addressed sooner than later 
for the greater good!

