---
title: "Reproducibility"
author: "Ryan Morgan"
topic: "08"
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

Donoho’s 1995 paper called attention to the idea and importance of reproducible research. Donoho wrote that the main goal of the paper was “to call attention to the principle they have tried to follow: When we publish articles containing figures which were generated by computer, we also publish the complete software environment which generates the figures.” Donoho argues that it is critical for a paper to have reproducible results, even going as far as saying that published work is required for a field to even qualify as a science. He claims that publishing figures or results without the software environment used to create them is like “a mathematician publishing an announcement of a mathematical theorem without giving the proof.”

The 2008 paper revisited the ideas brought up in the 1995 paper and continued to argue for reproducibility. Donoho also sort of “doubles down” on how important reproducibility is and claims that “it is impossible to believe most of the computational results shown in conferences and papers” and that current conferences and publications are “a sales pitch: an enthusiastic presentation of ideas and a breezy demo of an implementation.” Donoho writes of some of the feedback he has gotten regarding his ideas on reproducibility, both positive and negative. He says that (based on his experiences) when you conduct reproducible research, your paper is more likely to be referenced and used by other researchers. He also responds to some objections (both knee-jerk and thoughtful) on reproducibility.

The 2008 paper, to me, seems to take the ideas in the 1995 paper and expand on them and try to provide more justification for why reproducibility in research is a worthwhile endeavor. I especially found the “Reflections” section of the 2008 paper (section 11) to be interesting. I had thought of some of the common objections when reading the 1995 paper, so I thought it was good that Donoho provided some arguments against the common objections. I agree with Donoho that it should be a goal of researchers to make their results reproducible, and it definitely makes sense why a second article was written. The 1995 paper discusses how WaveLab’s results are reproducible because they make their software available on CD-ROM. As technology continues to change and become more efficient, ways of making results available will also have to change and become more efficient.
