---
title: "A Layered Grammar of Graphics"
author: "Krishnan Ganesh"
topic: "03"
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

Visualization and graphics is a very important aspect of statistical analysis, and it is essential to have a structured way of generating these graphics. A logical structure makes the code not only readable but also helps us make changes easily because of an existing structure. A layered approach to terminolgy and syntax helps us create graphs by adding objects in a Hierarchial fashion. We can first build a framework then add the model, then the lines and points, then labels and so on. This hierarchial approach of creating charts, along with appropriate terminology and syntax naming can be seen in ggplot2, which serves as a very good example of how layered grammar can shape not only the way we code, but also the way we think. Such a syntaxing and structured approach gives us a chance to restablish, revaluate any abnormalities that we detect in our charts very easily.  Debugging, pinpointing and solving any issues in the graphics also becomes very straightforward. As Hadley has described in his paper this approach makes it easier to iteratively update a plot and gives us the flexibility of tackling/ changeing each feature of a plot seperately. Inclusion of the ability to apply statistical transformation while plotting is one such thing that shows the amount of flexibilty that can be achieved by adopting this layered approach. Aspects like adding geometric objects, coordinate systems, faceting only adds to the benefit of such a sytem. Doing all these without adopting this hierarchial structured approach would otherwise have been a very complex process, that might only benefit the developer but not the user, who is not aware of the background and aprroach adopted while generating the graphics. Moreover as in the case with ggplot2 there exists a series of defaults that makes quick chart generations also possible, while giving us the flexibility to change any of the aspects of the graphics simplistically and individually.
