---
title: "Freedom for Authors vs Freedom for Users"
author: "Firstname Lastname"
topic: "09"
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

## Which license would you pick?
I think it depends on what kind of work I was doing. I see many advantages to the MIT License, so I think that is what I would choose. However, a big issue with the MIT License is that it allows anyone who uses your R package to take and use parts of it and sell it for their own purposes. Although I am for free software (in the sense of freedom), I don't think I would appreciate someone else selling my work as their own and making money from it. However, I think the MIT License also provides the greatest protection to the author of the package, because it specifically states that "THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND", and that the authors are never liable for "ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES, OR OTHER LIABILITY", etc. It means that the software can still be used and shared freely, but if a company decides to use the package in their code and use it to sell a product, the author of the package is protected from a user trying to sue, since the package itself didn't come with any guarantee that it would function correctly in all possible scenarios. I think the MIT License comes with some risks, but I think in terms of being the author of a package, it provides the most advantages. As a user of other packages, I would perhaps prefer a license more like the GPL-3, since it also allows for the idea of modifications to the package and does still state that there is no guarantee or warranty on the contents of the package but that modifications or fixes are alright as long as they are not attributed to the original author if they are not by the original author. As such, I think I would want the same thing for users of my package. To be honest, I'm still not sure I entirely understand the differences between all of the licenses, but I believe if I were working on a more serious, impactful package I would probably use the GPL-3, whereas for smaller projects or projects that are more 'fun' in nature, I may consider the MIT license as it provides total freedom for users. 
