---
title: "Ethics of Reproducible Research"
author: "Ganesh Krishnan"
topic: "07"
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

Why didn’t the peer review system identify the problems?

This is a very interesting case. I did some more research on why LaCour ‘s publication was not detected by the peer 
review system in the first place. There are many reasons behind it. Let us first look into some of the things that 
LaCour did in order to avoid the detection. Apparently a prerequisite is required to submission of articles in 
science, something known as experiment pre-registration. This experiment pre-registration prevents researchers from 
testing for extremely large outcomes, finding one statistically significant outcome and claiming that this outcome 
was the point of research from the beginning. It also prevents researchers from publishing only successful studies 
and discarding the others.

LaCour reported that he had registered both his experiments but had in reality only registered one of them. Now the 
major point here is that the collaborator in question here is a very renowned and acclaimed researcher, Dr. Donald 
Green. Donald Greens name shielded LaCour from closer scrutiny and because of the potentially groundbreaking nature 
of the discovery and research, many prestigious journals like Science do not simply refuse to accept such an 
important paper simply on the fact that one of the two experiments was not registered. Yet this was a marker which 
should have raised some alarms, right in the early stages of peer reviewing.

The esteem that a highly decorated researchers name carries is very important in such matters, and because of 
Green’s name associated with it, many people do not put in the effort to do a step by step check. Also as often 
assumed peer review processes are far from perfect, and in fact it is very difficult for peer reviewers to detect 
artful fraud.

Big named peer-review journals have a tendency to accept surprising and potentially groundbreaking results that 
cause headlines even when these are the ones that generally turn out to be fraudulent. Replicative results or  
failed replications or not so attractive results are incredibly difficult to get published, although these have 
proven to be the true backbone of scientific research. Therefore, in order to adhere to the demand for fast paced 
and flashy results, sometimes scientists fall back to such fraudulent ways. Although no one took responsibility in 
LaCour’s fraudulent publication case, an artful dishonest grad student is not the only culprit here.

It is true that its very unprofessional and in bad faith when a grad student fools his advisor with falsified data, 
but in some ways it is a consequence of the scientific community refusing to acknowledge the importance of  the 
practice of senior scientists putting their names on junior researchers' work without actually getting completely 
into the research themselves. Publishers and scientists even when they don't take an active part in falsification 
and deceptiveness, need to realise that ultimately they are also responsible for the culture of slowly yet steadily 
producing falsification, exaggeration and outright fabrication, whether it be at a small stage or as big as a 
complete data set or even writing an entire paper.
