---
title: "Reducing Future Annoyances By Not Being Lazy"
author: "Kiegan Rice"
topic: "01"
layout: post
root: ../../../
---

## What role does literate programming play in your life so far?  
Literate programming plays a role, albeit a smaller role than it should. I believe using things like RMarkdown and TeX to document all the coding that I do help me to stay organized within a project. However, even though I make use of these things, I still have an amazing ability to be lazy about it when I really get into a project. Sometimes it's more fun to feel like you've had a 'breakthrough' while coding than to really work through it step by step and document every little thing you do with checks that it is actually doing what it is supposed to be doing. It is easy to get caught up in trying to work through something quickly, rather than to make sure you are doing it correctly. I think I do pretty well at commenting my code, but I think I lack the ability to comment it with the perspective in mind of an outsider who doesn't think the same way I do. I also think that commenting code and using something like Markdown is a great start for literate programming, but it also still leaves a lot of room for error. It doesn't matter how long and detailed your comments are if something is going wrong and your comments don't address that issue! The biggest example of this was one of my undergraduate research projects, where we had a huge amount of transcript data and we needed to transform the data from long to wide format. After about a week I managed to make the format work, but if I were to go back now and try to fix the bugs or make sure it worked for new data on more recent semesters, I can guarantee it would probably take me twice as long just to figure out what I had done and then make the changes necessary!  

## Where do you see potential in applying literate programming in your workflow?
I think there is a ton of potential for applying literate programming in my workflow, especially as I am starting to learn things like Shiny and want to be able to work more with interactive programs. Having well-written documentation and writing it as I write each line of code would allow me to more easily see where I am doing things incorrectly or how exactly I created a certain element of that code. I think this is helpfule especially when thinking about how you write a function - what the name is, what inputs it takes, what it outputs - being more clear about exactly why the function is written the way it is will make life much easier down the line when you want to change anything. I also think there is a lot of potential for literate programming in writing R packages. I am working on an R package now, and I think making sure the documentation and explanation for each part of the package is extremely important. Whenever I use a new R package, the most important step is to read the documentation to understand what exactly the different functions are doing, and I think being able to better use literate programming as you write a package (and the functions in it) would help streamline the process immensely. However, I also think that it with literate programming comes a learning curve - even once you start making an effort, it will still take you a few tries to get to a system and a way of thinking that works for you and for the readers of your code.  

I think the biggest roadblock between my current style of programming and literate programming is just recognizing that it will take longer (at least at first) to do it right, and to take everything slowly to make sure you are doing it right. It is easy to stay lazy and just write code how you've always written code and assume you're the only one that will really care how it is written. It is harder to force yourself into clear and thorough documentation, but I suspect that it will pay off immensely in the end, primarily for my future self. Especially in this day and age, we forget things like small programming details much more quickly when there is so much information out there that we are absorbing on a daily basis. I think my self of tomorrow will be much happier if my self of today starts thinking of future me as a stranger who won't remember any of the details of the code I am writing right now. So really, once that shift of mindset happens I think there is immeasurable potential to implement it in my workflow -- it can be implemented in literally everything I do as a statistician.  
